Week 1

I was initially quite skeptical about the HCI module, I tend to prefer more
mathematical subjects, where concepts are objective rather than subjective. I
have typically done better in those kinds of modules. To be honest the first
week of HCI has not put me at ease. 'Good' and 'Bad' design are concepts that
are very difficult to pin down and I worry that if I am required to identify
such things in an exam I will not do well.
	I thought it was interesting to see the lecture slides with pictures of old
computer systems, like the punch-card computer at NASA and the old Apple Mac
computer. I am interested to hear the lecturer's thoughts on punch card systems.
I would also like to know if she has any ideas about programming languages in
relation to HCI. Perhaps I will send an email.

Week 2

Sending an email to Kate Howland has been helped with my concerns about the
module. I now seems that the subject is more objective than I realised.
    It is interesting to see just how relative our judgements about effective
design. As Kate said in her email, we have no way of judging designs in a
vacuum. When the punch card system was developed, or technological ability
limited the degree to which the design could be user-centered.
    The Tivo remote discussed in the text-book is an interesting example. There
is certainly a problem with most TV remotes. I think the minimal approach that
the Tivo remote takes could be taken even further - I think a 4-way navigation
button, a select button, a power button and volume buttons would be ideal. This
bare minimum allows all other functionality to be managed as part of the
on-screen GUI. This would eliminate the problem that reading-glasses wearers
have - they require glasses to see the remote buttons but not the TV screen.
    The Tivo remote reminds me of an example of an iterface with awful feedback
- my freesat box at home takes far too long to respond to button presses on the
remote, sometimes as much as 10 seconds. It makes you think that the press was
not detected, so you press it again, and then all of a sudden, it registers both
presses. If you're scrolling through the TV guide and you were trying to go down
a page, this means you accidentally go down two pages, which is very
frustrating.

Week 3

For my group project this week, my 'homework' was to review an existing study
assistant app, with a focus on usability & the design principles.
    My chosen app is 'Papyrus', a handwriting/note-taking app for android.

Usability Goals
    Effectiveness - 4 stars. The pinch-to-pan/zoom feature allows you
to edit writing either in fine detail, or in a less considered way.
    Efficiency - 1 star. While the zooming/panning is ver effective, it does take a
long time to actually input writing, because there is so much panning and
zooming required to manipulate the page in order to be ready to enter text.
Often when trying to pan & zoom, only one finger is registered, and instead of
panning or zooming, a line is drawn. You then have to press 'undo', and try
again. This is frustrating and slows things down considerably.
    Learnability - 4 stars. Menus are very short, settings are well explained and
not too extensive. The brush size/colour options are familiar and recalling how
to use them is trivial.
    Memorablity - 4 stars. The points from learnability apply here. There is so
little to learn about the app that memorising the steps to achieve tasks is
trivial.
    Safety - 4 stars. There is a delete note/notebook confirmation which
prevents accidental deletion. There are undo and redo buttons in the editor to
undo mistakes. One potential (but rather unlikely) issue would be to make a
mistake, and then leave the note. When you re-enter the note, you cannot undo
previous changes. If this option were added, this would not be an issue.
    Utility - 3 stars. A good range of options relating to handwriting entry,
such as brush size, colour etc. Ability to sort notes into different categories,
however one note cannot be in multiple categories. The app lacks anything beyond
handwriting entry - on-screen keyboard entry would be very useful due to the
slowness that results from the need to pan & zoom.

Summary
    Due to the inefficiency of the app's primary task, the app is effectively
useless. The idea of the app is that handwriting entry is faster than using an
on-screen keyboard, and therefore is a good replacement for it when speed is an
issue, is completely undermined by the slowness that results from panning and
zooming so often.
